# Digital-Image-Processing
DETERMINATION OF THE MORPHOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF COARSE AGGREGATE USING DIGITAL IMAGE PROCESSING

The strength of concrete depends on the properties of its various components viz. Cement, fine aggregate, coarse aggregate and various additives. Coarse aggregates have several properties which determine the strength of concrete. Some of the primary properties are its morphological characteristics viz. sphericity, shape factor, elongation index and flakiness index. Traditional ways to measure elongation index and flakiness index require equipment and take time. Also, so there are no true laboratory test or equipment to measure sphericity and shape factor. Hence, we developed an algorithm to measure these properties simply from the image of the aggregates taken by a simple mobile camera. Shear parameter of Coarse aggregate is correlated with shape parameters like flakiness ratio (FR), elongation ratio (ER), sphericity (ψ) and shape factor (SF) .  The shape analysis of particles is performed with the help of particles dimensions (largest, intermediate and shortest dimension) and the result is presented in terms of their angularity, sphericity and shape factor. 

Coarse aggregates are fundamental elements of hydraulic concrete, asphaltic concrete and granular bases. Their characteristics affects fresh and hardened concrete properties and also its cost. Aggregates contain between 70% and 80% of concrete volume, that's why it becomes important to know the aggregate properties and their influence on concrete properties, in order to improve its use.

Objectives : Conventional aggregate shape measurement methods are subjective and time consuming, and that's why Digital Image analysis has been recently used to determine the morphological characteristics of particles. In this study, the morphological characteristics of coarse aggregates from eight different sources are determined using both, conventional methods and Digital Image Processing using MATLAB. 

Findings : The shape and texture of aggregate affects the properties of fresh concrete more than hardened concrete. Concrete is more workable when smooth and rounded aggregate is used instead of rough angular or elongated aggregate. Most natural sands and gravel from riverbeds or seashores are smooth and rounded and are excellent aggregates. Crushed stone produces much more angular and elongated aggregates, which have a higher surface-to volume ratio, better bond characteristics but require more cement paste to produce a workable mixture.The surface texture of aggregate can be either smooth or rough. A smooth surface can improve workability, yet a rougher surface generates a stronger bond between the paste and the aggregate creating a higher strength. (Mehta 1993) According to Zingg Diagram particles of Sample 2 and 5 are of oblate shape. Hence only particles of Sample 1,3,4,6,7 and 8 fall under Rounded shape as per IS 383 Table 12. 
